CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to AI Prompt Enhancer

## Welcome Contributors! 🌍

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the AI Prompt Enhancer project! It's people like you that make the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create.

## Code of Conduct 🤝

This project and everyone participating in it are governed by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Environment Setup for Development 🔧

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

1. **Fork and clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/prompt-enhancer.ai.git
   cd prompt-enhancer.ai
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   # Run our interactive setup script
   npm run setup
   ```

   The setup script will guide you through creating your local `.env` file and configuring API keys.

### API Keys and Environment Configuration 🔒

Our project uses different API keys for development and production:

- **Development Environment**: The setup script will generate a random API key for your local development
- **Production Environment**: Uses a fixed hardcoded API key (`071ab274d796058af0f2c1c205b78009670fc774bd574960`)

**IMPORTANT:**

- Never change the production API key in any files
- Never commit your local development API key
- When contributing, ensure your changes respect this API key management approach

### API Keys Security 🔒

**IMPORTANT:** API keys and secrets should never be committed to the repository.

- For local development, your `.env` file is automatically added to `.gitignore` to prevent accidental commits
- For deployment and CI/CD, we use GitHub Secrets (described below)
- When submitting PRs, never include actual API keys in your code or comments

### Setting Up GitHub Secrets for CI/CD (For Maintainers)

If you're a maintainer or setting up your own fork with CI/CD:

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Click on "Settings" → "Secrets and variables" → "Actions"
3. Add the following secrets:
   - `REACT_APP_API_KEY` - Should be set to the production API key: `071ab274d796058af0f2c1c205b78009670fc774bd574960`
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - Your OpenAI API key
   - `MISTRAL_API_KEY` - Your Mistral AI API key (if using Mistral)

Our GitHub Actions workflows will use these secrets to build and deploy without exposing sensitive data.

## How Can I Contribute? 🚀

### Reporting Bugs 🐛

1. **Ensure the bug is not already reported** by searching existing [Issues](https://github.com/Treblle/prompt-enhancer.ai/issues)
2. If you can't find an existing issue, [open a new one](https://github.com/Treblle/prompt-enhancer.ai/issues/new)
3. Include:
   - A clear title
   - Detailed description
   - Steps to reproduce
   - Expected vs. actual behavior
   - Screenshots (if applicable)
   - Environment details (OS, Node version, etc.)

### Suggesting Enhancements ✨

1. Open an issue with:
   - A clear and descriptive title
   - Detailed explanation of the proposed enhancement
   - Potential benefits
   - Implementation considerations (if you have thoughts)

### Pull Requests Process 🔧

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```

3. Make your changes

4. Test your changes thoroughly

   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

5. Make sure your code follows our coding guidelines

6. Commit your changes using meaningful commit messages

   ```bash
   git commit -m 'Add: Implement amazing feature'
   ```

7. Push to the branch

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```

8. Open a Pull Request

9. Wait for review and address any feedback

## Development Guidelines 📝

### Backend (Node.js)

- Follow ESLint rules
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Write modular, reusable code
- Handle errors gracefully
- Never log sensitive information like API keys
- **IMPORTANT:** Do not change the hardcoded production API key value

### Frontend (React)

- Use functional components with hooks
- Follow React best practices
- Use Tailwind CSS utility classes
- Keep components small and focused
- Use TypeScript for type safety (recommended)
- Ensure mobile responsiveness

### Git Commit Messages

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use the format: `Type: Subject` where Type is one of:
  - `Add:` (new feature)
  - `Fix:` (bug fix)
  - `Docs:` (documentation changes)
  - `Style:` (formatting, no code change)
  - `Refactor:` (refactoring code)
  - `Test:` (adding tests, refactoring tests)
  - `Chore:` (updating build tasks, package manager configs)

## Testing 🧪

- Run existing tests before submitting a PR

  ```bash
  npm test
  ```

- Add tests for new features
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting a PR

## Performance and Security 🔒

- Optimize API calls
- Implement proper error handling
- Never commit sensitive information
- Use environment variables for configuration
- Run security checks before submitting PRs

  ```bash
  npm run security-check
  ```

## Code Review Process 🕵️

1. Maintainers will review PR
2. Feedback and suggestions will be provided
3. Changes may be requested
4. Once approved, PR will be merged

**Thank you for contributing! Together, we can make AI Prompt Enhancer even more awesome! 🌟**

Commit message:

Added Treblle to the Project

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to AI Prompt Enhancer

## Welcome Contributors! 🌍

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the AI Prompt Enhancer project! It's people like you that make the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create.

## Code of Conduct 🤝

This project and everyone participating in it are governed by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## Environment Setup for Development 🔧

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

1. **Fork and clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/prompt-enhancer.ai.git
   cd prompt-enhancer.ai
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   # Run our interactive setup script
   npm run setup
   ```

   The setup script will guide you through creating your local `.env` file and configuring API keys.

### API Keys and Environment Configuration 🔒

Our project uses different API keys for development and production:

- **Development Environment**: The setup script will generate a random API key for your local development
- **Production Environment**: Uses a fixed hardcoded API key (`071ab274d796058af0f2c1c205b78009670fc774bd574960`)

**IMPORTANT:**

- Never change the production API key in any files
- Never commit your local development API key
- When contributing, ensure your changes respect this API key management approach

### API Keys Security 🔒

**IMPORTANT:** API keys and secrets should never be committed to the repository.

- For local development, your `.env` file is automatically added to `.gitignore` to prevent accidental commits
- For deployment and CI/CD, we use GitHub Secrets (described below)
- When submitting PRs, never include actual API keys in your code or comments

### API Monitoring with Treblle 📊

The project uses Treblle for API monitoring and observability, but only in the production environment:

- **Development**: Treblle is disabled by default in local environments
- **Production**: Treblle automatically logs all API requests made to the production server

When working in development mode, you don't need to configure Treblle credentials. For production deployment, Treblle API keys are managed through GitHub Secrets and Vercel Environment Variables.

### Setting Up GitHub Secrets for CI/CD (For Maintainers)

If you're a maintainer or setting up your own fork with CI/CD:

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Click on "Settings" → "Secrets and variables" → "Actions"
3. Add the following secrets:
   - `REACT_APP_API_KEY` - Should be set to the production API key: `071ab274d796058af0f2c1c205b78009670fc774bd574960`
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - Your OpenAI API key
   - `MISTRAL_API_KEY` - Your Mistral AI API key (if using Mistral)
   - `TREBLLE_API_KEY` - Your Treblle API key for API monitoring
   - `TREBLLE_PROJECT_ID` - Your Treblle project ID for API monitoring

Our GitHub Actions workflows will use these secrets to build and deploy without exposing sensitive data.

## How Can I Contribute? 🚀

### Reporting Bugs 🐛

1. **Ensure the bug is not already reported** by searching existing [Issues](https://github.com/Treblle/prompt-enhancer.ai/issues)
2. If you can't find an existing issue, [open a new one](https://github.com/Treblle/prompt-enhancer.ai/issues/new)
3. Include:
   - A clear title
   - Detailed description
   - Steps to reproduce
   - Expected vs. actual behavior
   - Screenshots (if applicable)
   - Environment details (OS, Node version, etc.)

### Suggesting Enhancements ✨

1. Open an issue with:
   - A clear and descriptive title
   - Detailed explanation of the proposed enhancement
   - Potential benefits
   - Implementation considerations (if you have thoughts)

### Pull Requests Process 🔧

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature
   ```

3. Make your changes

4. Test your changes thoroughly

   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

5. Make sure your code follows our coding guidelines

6. Commit your changes using meaningful commit messages

   ```bash
   git commit -m 'Add: Implement amazing feature'
   ```

7. Push to the branch

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/amazing-feature
   ```

8. Open a Pull Request

9. Wait for review and address any feedback

## Development Guidelines 📝

### Backend (Node.js)

- Follow ESLint rules
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Write modular, reusable code
- Handle errors gracefully
- Never log sensitive information like API keys
- **IMPORTANT:** Do not change the hardcoded production API key value

### Frontend (React)

- Use functional components with hooks
- Follow React best practices
- Use Tailwind CSS utility classes
- Keep components small and focused
- Use TypeScript for type safety (recommended)
- Ensure mobile responsiveness

### Git Commit Messages

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use the format: `Type: Subject` where Type is one of:
  - `Add:` (new feature)
  - `Fix:` (bug fix)
  - `Docs:` (documentation changes)
  - `Style:` (formatting, no code change)
  - `Refactor:` (refactoring code)
  - `Test:` (adding tests, refactoring tests)
  - `Chore:` (updating build tasks, package manager configs)

## Testing 🧪

- Run existing tests before submitting a PR

  ```bash
  npm test
  ```

- Add tests for new features
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting a PR

## Performance and Security 🔒

- Optimize API calls
- Implement proper error handling
- Never commit sensitive information
- Use environment variables for configuration
- Run security checks before submitting PRs

  ```bash
  npm run security-check
  ```

## Code Review Process 🕵️

1. Maintainers will review PR
2. Feedback and suggestions will be provided
3. Changes may be requested
4. Once approved, PR will be merged

**Thank you for contributing! Together, we can make AI Prompt Enhancer even more awesome! 🌟**
